I am delighted to address Jehovah’s people
and their friends worldwide today!
After sundown,
some 20 million of us will have gathered
in various congregations,
groups, and even as individuals
to commemorate the death of Jesus.
Before we begin our discussion,
we will have the text for today read
by Brother Don Gordon,
a helper to the Publishing Committee.
Today is Tuesday, April 4.
“‘Keep doing this in remembrance of me.’
—Luke 22:19.”
Why would over 20 million people
gather together this evening?
One reason is our Scripture text for today,
Luke 22:19.
Jesus was in the process of inaugurating
the Memorial of his death.
He had just broken the unleavened bread
and passed it to each one present.
The unleavened bread pictured
Jesus’ perfect, sinless body
that he would surrender in death
for the everlasting benefit
to all exercising faith in him.
It is at this point that Jesus said the words
of Luke 22:19:
“Keep doing this in remembrance of me,”
meaning keep using the wine and bread
as the way to remember my death
and all that it will accomplish.
Why would he say that:
“Keep doing this”?
He meant exactly what he said:
“Keep doing this.”
Yes, keep doing it on into the future.
How often did he intend
that we “keep doing” it?
Some religions
partake of the bread and wine weekly.
They call it communion.
Other religions
let the individual congregations determine
how often they would perform this activity.
Still others instruct that it should be done
four times a year.
Why do Jehovah’s Witnesses
remember Jesus’ death in this special way,
just once each year
on the anniversary of Jesus’ death?
Well, there is some logic
to celebrating an anniversary annually
on the precise date of the original event,
much like a wedding anniversary.
Why would you celebrate
a wedding anniversary
on any other day of the year
or multiple times a year?
Certainly, you would not celebrate
your wedding anniversary
every week or every day.
Interestingly,
the English word “anniversary”
is defined
as “the annual recurrence of a date
marking an event or occurrence
of notable importance.”
Jesus’ death is certainly
“of notable importance.”
However,
not only is it logical to do so once a year
but there is a Biblical indication
that this is what Jesus was requesting,
in effect saying:
“Keep doing this
“[once a year on the anniversary of my death]
in remembrance of me.”
What is the Biblical indication
that it should be memorialized
just once a year?
Let’s look at the context
of our text for today
in Luke chapter 22.
Please locate that text.
Our day’s text is verse 19.
But what was the initial purpose
of Jesus and his apostles gathering together
for a meal on that date?
The date was Nisan 14
according to the Jewish, or lunar, calendar
of that time.
Please look at Luke 22:7, 8.
It says:
“The day of the Unleavened Bread now arrived,
“on which the Passover sacrifice must be offered;
“so Jesus sent Peter and John, saying:
‘Go and get the Passover ready for us to eat.’”
According to Jewish law at the time,
Jesus had faithfully observed
the Passover once each year.
Now read verses 14 through 17:
“So when the hour came,
“he reclined at the table
“along with the apostles.
“And he said to them:
“‘I have greatly desired
“‘to eat this Passover with you
“‘before I suffer;
“‘for I tell you,
“‘I will not eat it again
“until it is fulfilled in the Kingdom of God.’
“And accepting a cup,
“he gave thanks and said:
“‘Take this and pass it from one to the other
among yourselves.’”
Just prior to instituting the Memorial,
Jesus celebrated the Jewish Passover,
as we just read
in verses 14 through 17.
By the time of the first century,
it was the custom to pass four cups of wine
to those seated for the Passover meal.
The cup mentioned in verse 17
was likely the third cup
of the Passover celebration.
Evidently,
Jesus was saving the fourth cup
for instituting the Memorial of his death.
So the question is,
How often was the Passover to be celebrated?
In Exodus chapter 12,
when Jehovah was preparing the Israelites
to depart Egypt,
he instituted the Passover
to remember this event
of notable importance for the nation.
At Exodus 12:14,
Jehovah instructed Moses:
“This day will serve as a memorial for you,
“and you must celebrate it
“as a festival to Jehovah
“throughout your generations.
“As a lasting statute,
you should celebrate it.”
He repeated in verse 17:
“And you must keep this day
“throughout your generations
as a lasting statute.”
So it is that Jews observe the Passover
once a year “as a memorial”
on the annual anniversary
of their Exodus from Egypt.
So after celebrating
the last valid Jewish Passover,
when Jesus instituted
the Memorial of his death
and he said “keep doing this,”
his apostles would have known the intent.
Instead of observing the Passover
once a year on that date,
they would now remember the death of Jesus
once a year on that same date.
That seems pretty logical, straightforward,
and has a Scriptural precedent.
But many nominal Christian religions
seem to think
that memorializing the event
more often during the year
must be even better.
In part,
this is because of a misunderstanding
of the intent of 1 Corinthians 11:25.
In most English translations of the Bible,
it is rendered something like this:
“Keep doing this,
as often as you drink it,
in remembrance of me.”
Some feel that the word “often”
indicates that Christ’s death
should be commemorated frequently
in the sense of as many times as possible.
The New World Translation
also rendered the verse similarly
prior to the revised edition being released.
The wording is an accurate way
of rendering the verse.
However,
its intent is easily misinterpreted by many.
For example,
just commemorating
the Lord’s Evening Meal once a year
is often
when you consider
that it is approaching 2,000 years
since Jesus instituted it.
That in itself is often.
But, more precisely,
in the context of 1 Corinthians 11:25, 26,
Paul was discussing, not how often,
but how the Memorial should be observed.
In the original language,
he did not use the Greek word
that means “often,” or “frequently.”
Rather,
he used a different Greek word
that means “as often as,”
or it could be expressed “whenever”
or “every time that you do.”
Paul was saying:
‘Every time that you do this,
you keep proclaiming the death of the Lord.’
To make that even clearer to the reader,
the revised New World Translation
now renders the text at 1 Corinthians 11:25
this way:
“Keep doing this, whenever you drink it,
in remembrance of me.”
And as discussed already,
Jesus intended that it be
a once-a-year replacement
for the annual Passover observance
on the anniversary of Jesus’ death.
To be clear,
following the process Jesus instituted
with the bread and wine
just once a year
does not mean we only think
about Jesus’ death
on one day of the year.
No!
Those of you
who are dedicated
and baptized Witnesses of Jehovah know
that we think of Jesus’ sacrificial death
every day of the year.
It is mentioned
in our regular congregation meetings
and in our family worship.
And every prayer we say
acknowledges Jesus’ presenting
the value of his sacrificial death
in our behalf.
At the end of every prayer,
we acknowledge to God
that we are praying in Jesus’ name.
Amen.
Being imperfect,
we do not have direct access to Jehovah.
Instead, he readily accepts our prayer
if we say it
in the name of his Son, Jesus Christ.
Most of you viewing this program
are well-aware of the fact
that the Memorial is primarily
for those chosen by God for heavenly life.
It signifies
their being party to the new covenant
to share in the Kingdom with Christ.
However, all who gather together tonight
will benefit greatly
from being in attendance.
All of us are imperfect,
and we benefit from Jesus’ ransom sacrifice,
which is the basis for forgiveness of sins.
And all of us have the prospect
of everlasting life in the future,
whether that is in heaven
for the few anointed ones
or in a paradise earth
for the millions of others serving Jehovah.
So only the few anointed ones
will actually partake
of the bread and wine tonight.
Because of the high percentage
of those in attendance with an earthly hope,
very few by comparison
will partake of the emblems.
In most congregations,
there will likely not be any partakers;
in others, maybe one or two.
If that is the case,
why do we pass the emblems
to each one in attendance?
Why not just invite
any of the anointed to the stage
to partake of the bread and wine?
It would save a lot of time
instead of passing the emblems
to all in the audience.
The foremost reason
the emblems are passed before all
is because that follows
the pattern set by Jesus.
However, if an anointed one
makes clear his heavenly hope by partaking,
what about those of you
who pass the emblems by without partaking?
You too are going on public notice
that your hope is to live forever
in a marvelous paradise here on earth.
And think about it:
For humans, that is the best life ever!
It is what Jehovah originally intended
for mankind
when he created the first couple
in the garden of Eden.
What could be better for a human than that?
All of us eagerly look forward
to the time soon to come
when the evil influence of Satan
is taken away from the earth.
He and all of his demon followers
will be hurled into an abyss of inactivity
for 1,000 years.
The resurrected anointed ones
will share with Christ
in bringing that about.
And those alive on earth
during the Thousand Year Reign of Jesus
will share in bringing the earth back
to the condition Jehovah originally intended.
Extending our thoughts
even further into the future,
after the Thousand Year Reign of Christ,
mankind will have reached perfection,
similar to Adam and Eve after their creation
and before their plunge into sin.
First Corinthians 15:24 says:
“Next, the end,
“when he hands over the Kingdom
to his God and Father.”
By then the Messianic Kingdom
will have fulfilled its role
to have an earth filled with perfect people.
Then, after a final test by Satan,
any dissenters will be eliminated
and Satan and his demons
will be forever destroyed.
At that time,
Jehovah’s original purpose for the earth
will be fully realized.
The entire planet
will be full of beautiful people,
all worshippers of the Universal Sovereign,
our precious Father, Jehovah God.
Brother Gordon, will you please read
the Watchtower  comments for today’s text?
“Jesus spoke to his 11 faithful apostles
“about two covenants, or agreements
“—the new covenant
and the Kingdom covenant.
“These covenants opened up the way
“for those apostles
and a limited number of others
“to become kings and priests in heaven.
“Only the anointed remnant,
who are in these two covenants,
“may partake of the bread and the wine
“at the Memorial.
“Jehovah has given them a remarkable hope
“—to enjoy
immortal and incorruptible life in heaven,
“to serve alongside
the glorified Jesus Christ
“and the rest of the 144,000
“and, above all,
to be in the very presence of Jehovah God!
“The anointed recognize
that they must remain faithful
until their death.”
Thank you, Don.
For the past few days,
our Bible reading has covered
the Bible accounts
leading up to Jesus’ death.
We invite you to follow along
with the reading for today.
The specific verses
will appear on screen in your language.
Along with the reading,
enjoy the new artwork
that has been prepared this year.
“On the first day of the Unleavened Bread,
“the disciples came to Jesus, saying:
“‘Where do you want us to prepare for you
“to eat the Passover?’
“He said:
“‘Go into the city to So-and-so
“‘and say to him, “The Teacher says:
“‘“‘My appointed time is near;
“‘“‘I will celebrate the Passover
“with my disciples at your home.’”’
“So the disciples did as Jesus instructed them
and prepared for the Passover.”
“The day of the Unleavened Bread now arrived,
“on which the Passover sacrifice must be offered;
“so Jesus sent Peter and John, saying:
“‘Go and get the Passover ready for us to eat.’
“They said to him:
“‘Where do you want us to get it ready?’
“He said to them:
“‘Look! When you enter into the city,
“‘a man carrying an earthenware water jar
“‘will meet you.
“‘Follow him into the house that he enters.
“‘And say to the landlord of the house,
“‘“The Teacher says to you:
“‘“‘Where is the guest room
“‘where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?’”
“‘And that man will show you
“‘a large, furnished upper room.
“Get it ready there.’
“So they left and found it just as he had told them,
and they prepared for the Passover.”
“When evening came,
“he was reclining at the table with the 12 disciples.
“While they were eating, he said:
“‘Truly I say to you, one of you will betray me.’
“Being very much grieved at this,
“each and every one began to say to him:
“‘Lord, it is not I, is it?’
“In reply he said:
“‘The one who dips his hand with me into the bowl
“‘is the one who will betray me.
“‘True, the Son of man is going away,
“‘just as it is written about him,
“‘but woe to that man
“‘through whom the Son of man is betrayed!
“‘It would have been better for that man
if he had not been born.’
“Judas, who was about to betray him, replied:
“‘It is not I, is it, Rabbi?’
“Jesus said to him:
“‘You yourself said it.’
“As they continued eating, Jesus took a loaf,
“and after saying a blessing, he broke it,
“and giving it to the disciples, he said:
“‘Take, eat. This means my body.’
“And taking a cup, he offered thanks
“and gave it to them, saying:
“‘Drink out of it, all of you,
“‘for this means my “blood of the covenant,”
“‘which is to be poured out in behalf of many
“‘for forgiveness of sins.
“‘But I say to you:
“‘I will by no means drink again
“‘any of this product of the vine
“‘until that day when I drink it new with you
in the Kingdom of my Father.’
“Finally, after singing praises,
“they went out to the Mount of Olives.
“Then Jesus said to them:
“‘All of you will be stumbled
“‘in connection with me on this night,
“‘for it is written: “I will strike the shepherd,
“‘and the sheep of the flock will be scattered about.”
“‘But after I have been raised up,
“I will go ahead of you into Galilee.’
“But Peter, in response, said to him:
“‘Although all the others
“‘are stumbled in connection with you,
“I will never be stumbled!’
“Jesus said to him:
“‘Truly I say to you,
“‘on this night, before a rooster crows,
“you will disown me three times.’
“Peter said to him:
“‘Even if I should have to die with you,
“I will by no means disown you.’
“All the other disciples also said the same thing.
“Then Jesus came with them
“to the spot called Gethsemane,
“and he said to the disciples:
“‘Sit down here while I go over there and pray.’
“And taking along Peter
“and the two sons of Zebʹe·dee,
“he began to feel grieved
“and to be greatly troubled.
“Then he said to them:
“‘I am deeply grieved, even to death.
“Stay here and keep on the watch with me.’
“And going a little way forward,
“he fell facedown, praying:
“‘My Father, if it is possible,
“‘let this cup pass away from me.
“Yet, not as I will, but as you will.’
“He returned to the disciples
“and found them sleeping,
“and he said to Peter:
“‘Could you not so much as keep on the watch
“‘for one hour with me?
“‘Keep on the watch and pray continually,
“‘so that you may not enter into temptation.
“‘The spirit, of course, is eager,
“but the flesh is weak.’
“Again, a second time, he went off and prayed:
“‘My Father,
“‘if it is not possible for this to pass away
“‘unless I drink it,
“let your will take place.’
“And he came again and found them sleeping,
“for their eyes were heavy.
“So leaving them,
“he again went off and prayed for a third time,
“saying once more the same thing.
“Then he returned to the disciples and said to them:
“‘At such a time as this,
“‘you are sleeping and resting!
“‘Look! The hour has drawn near
“‘for the Son of man to be betrayed
“‘into the hands of sinners.
“‘Get up, let us go.
“Look! My betrayer has drawn near.’
“While he was still speaking,
“look! Judas, one of the Twelve, came
“and with him a large crowd with swords and clubs,
“sent from the chief priests
“and the elders of the people.
“Now his betrayer had given them a sign, saying:
“‘Whoever it is I kiss, he is the one;
“take him into custody.’
“And going straight up to Jesus, he said:
“‘Greetings, Rabbi!’
“and gave him a tender kiss.
“But Jesus said to him:
“‘Fellow, for what purpose are you present?’
“Then they came forward and seized Jesus
“and took him into custody.
“But look! one of those with Jesus
“reached out his hand and drew his sword
“and struck the slave of the high priest,
“taking off his ear.
“Then Jesus said to him:
“‘Return your sword to its place,
“‘for all those who take up the sword
“‘will perish by the sword.
“‘Or do you think that I cannot appeal to my Father
“‘to supply me at this moment
“‘more than 12 legions of angels?
“‘In that case,
“‘how would the Scriptures be fulfilled
“that say it must take place this way?’
“In that hour Jesus said to the crowds:
“‘Did you come out to arrest me
“‘with swords and clubs as against a robber?
“‘Day after day I used to sit in the temple teaching,
“‘and yet you did not take me into custody.
“‘But all of this has taken place
“for the writings of the prophets to be fulfilled.’
Then all the disciples abandoned him and fled.”
Those were significant verses leading up
to the two greatest acts of love of all time.
Jehovah and Jesus cooperated together to undo
the works of the Devil that were initiated
back in the garden of Eden with Adam and Eve.
Whether of the anointed
or of the other sheep,
we all have the marvelous hope
of everlasting life
based on the ransom sacrifice
of the perfect man Jesus.
We hope all of you enjoy your evening
commemorating Jesus’ death
in behalf of all of us!